Welcome back.
We're going to continue right where we left off.
Previously we had finished setting up these two class based views and we set up the models as well.
We have the list view which is going to list all the schools that are in the school model and then we
also the school detailed view which is going to show all the details of a specific entry in that school
model database and that includes things like showing all the students for a particular school.
What we need to do is set up the templates and then somebody else that py file.
So it really doesn't matter what order you do this in.
You can set up the URLs that by file first and then set up the templates or the templates first and
then set up the or else up-I.
It makes sense either way since they're basically codependent on each other.
We'll start off with the templates and we should all start up with the base template that makes the
most sense since we're going to be extending that into the other pages.
So I'm right now under the templates folder that's in the same directory level as the project and the
application.
So there's my project folder application folder and then templates folder bassée Steimle and index page
HTML.
Let's take care of this.
What would be nice to add in here is a navigation bar that can take us to the various pages.
So we'll call neth and we will give this class equal to.
And this is one of those kind of quirky bootstrap names its nav bar space nav bar dash default.
And then we'll say now Barbash static dash top and then inside of this nav bar we have an unordered
list that also takes in a special bootstrap class which again quirky name nav nav bar dash nav.
OK so let's have three items in the actual nav bar.
So we'll have three list elements inside of this unordered list.
And each of these is actually also going to be an anchor text and they're going to link to other pages
on our page and we're going to be doing is using your old template tagging.
But before we do that let's actually give these anchor tags their bootstrap classes.
The first one is going to be nav bar dash brand.
Remember this is kind of the brand that usually takes you back to the home page.
In our case we're going to do is once we set up the API file we will have a Ural inside the basic app
and we'll give it the list and then collapse the directory tree here for a second so we can see everything
here.
And I'm going to give this the name schools so internet bar all the way to the left as the brand there's
going to be larger texts at schools and if someone clicks on that they should then see a list of all
the schools that utilizes the list view then we're going to have two more links here.
And this will just be nav bar dash link.
As the class and inside of this is going to be in other your template and this is just going to be to
the admin page in case we ever want to quickly go to the admin page.
I can say Addleman colon index.
And let's just make the say admin.
So it takes us directly to the admin page and we'll just have an empty thing right here because later
on we'll add a third link.
But right now we can just keep empty and I'm actually going to do control a or command depending on
your operating system and then copy all of this.
So select that all copy it and I'm going to bring it into under basic app templates basic app basic
app underscore base.
I'm going to paste that all in here because I essentially want to have the same navigation bar in the
basic app based storage T-Mo.
So I will save that.
And now let's come back to our home page.
This is index page T.M. under the templates folder that's in the same directory as the project.
And I'm going to just get rid of all this and I'll put in a jumbotron and say something like home page
save that.
And right now based there it's still in the stage to tell them.
Let's go to basic app base school detail and school list and see how we can add something to those templates.
So we'll start off with the school list that each T.M. in what we're going to do here is say extends
and will extend from basic underscore app slash basic underscore app underscore based study team El
and that matches the base h team l file for specific templates application or I should say application
templates and we'll start off the block call block body underscore block and then because we're calling
that we also want to make sure we call and block and how we can do is say Hetter one and we'll call
this welcome to a list of all the schools save that and then I will do here is have an ordered list
and inside this ordered list I'm going to have template tagging with a for loop.
I'll say for school in school underscore l'Est I'll say H-2.
Some have some heading here a list item H-2 just so it looks a little larger instead of just that paragraph.
And then we'll call like can this be even like a link.
But right now we'll just say school and then grab the name of that school.
And let me end that for.
So the end for us to go here.
So annoying to say and for and what you're probably wondering right now is where does this term come
from school.
Underscore list well we're familiar of context dictionaries but you probably don't remember us actually
defining school underscore list in the context dictionary of that pie.
So if I jump over to views that pie here inside the school list view we don't see any mention of the
variable school underscore list.
So again where does this actually come from school underscore lists.
Do we have to define this by ourselves with some sort of call to a context dictionary and the list view
object right here that we inherit from actually is doing the work of creating that context dictionary
and returning it for you.
In fact what it does is it takes the model you called lower cases everything and then adds underscore
Elyas T.
So for instance if I'm calling models that school essentially what it's doing and this is just going
to be comments it returns a list with the name school underscore list.
So this thing lowercase and then adds an underscore L I S T.
Now if you're working by yourself that may be fine.
But usually for larger projects you have someone working with the front end and another person working
on the backend or teams etc. and you want to make sure that you're not constantly changing stuff and
maybe they're not even aware of list views and things being called as an underscore list.
So it might be better if you decide on your own terms what you want the sexual object to be called.
So it might make sense for this to be called schools.
Well how do we actually affect the use of pi to call the context object that gets returned whatever
we want.
Thankfully it's really easy.
Well you end up doing is using a class object attribute.
So here you just say context underscore object underscore name is equal to and then whatever you want
in this case we want it schools.
So here you can define your own context object name that's going to return the list of all schools inside
that model school.
Come back here then we can just match this up with schools.
OK.
And that's probably usually where you're going to be seeing that way you're fully under control and
you never have to worry about matching up to the model name.
You know exactly what you're calling and you have more flexibility over it.
While we're at it let's do the same thing for school detailed you.
So here I will call this context object name equal to school underscore detail.
Now you might be wondering well if list takes the model name and then adds an underscore list to it
as the default contex return what does detail view turn Well detail view actually just returns the model
lowercase.
So that's it.
So we just return school lowercase lists use return school underscore list.
OK.
So hopefully that made sense if you have any questions you can check and the documentation which actually
is a really nice example of this.
Or we can also just post the Q&A forums but the basic idea here is if you're ever confused on what the
context was called You just said it yourself.
Context underscore object underscore name equal to whatever you want to call it.
All right so we have a list view and this returns a list of all the records inside models that school.
So coming here since this is a list I know I can say for school and schools and then do something with
school name.
OK.
So this is fundamentally different than what we've done before because usually we would have to have
said grab something or in-context dictionary and call the objects to all but basically listing is such
a common exercise that the list of you is doing it automatically.
And what they're returning to you.
OK so that's the basics of using the list view for what we need to do.
And that's all we're going to do for now with the school estates T.M..
Now let's come over here to the actual school detail that each T.M. and what we'll will do is call extends
from in quotes here will passen basic underscore app slash basic underscore app underscore based dot
HTL reps and then we'll start off our block
so we'll call block that's the body block we're calling.
And then let's call and block and end here so we're going to do is play around with school details so
we'll have a better one that says.
In fact let's put this on a jumbotron.
You probably noticed of course and I'm kind of a big fan of the way the Jumbotron looks.
Probably too much of a big fan probably on his Jumbotron as often as I do but for teaching they make
things really clear because you get this nice little Center Jumbotron.
But now inside is heading one will say welcome to the school detail page and here's where we're going
to return details about the school so create heading to and say school details and in paragraphs all
we're going to do is this we'll have a template tag here.
And remember the context dictionary return was called school underscored detail.
That's what we find over here is that PI.
I called school underscore detail which means that's what this is.
So the actual school itself we don't need to say objects or anything.
So what I'm going to do is call the name of the school and we'll call this name and then let's add in
a couple of more things.
Remember the schools also have principals to them.
So we'll say principal and inject school underscored detail.
The principal
class spell everything correctly if not we'll have to do a little debugging.
Then another paragraph here and I'm going to call location
and we'll call school detail the location make sure that matches whatever you called the fields in your
models that PI file and then we're going to do is actually we'll just leave it like that for now and
we'll come back to this and add some more detail to it later.
But here we can see we have those actual details.
Now let's go to the URLs that PI file and a few things up.
OK we have the basic set up.
So let's match over to our Eurostar PI file and actually make sure everything's working correctly.
So underneath our project we have the project or else that PI file.
So we'll scroll all the way down.
We see your L patterns we see that original Buza index view that we created.
We'll keep that for the home page and we're going to do is call the function regular expression carry
it.
And then what we will say is basic underscore app slash and then we're going to use the include function
which means we actually need to import it.
So I'll say include here.
Let's get a little space there.
Save that and then I'm going to say include basic underscore app dot you are else and we can provide
a namespace for this if we ever need to refer to it later.
Now we can just call it basic underscore app.
So we shall save that.
And now this is going to do is allow us to reach over to the basic apps your PI file which we actually
haven't created yet.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'm right clicking on my basic app.
Top directory.
You file and calling your else.
Pie just within the past.
And here now our basic application is going to have it's own your own profile.
And what we need to do is say from Jingo the ceiling if your Else poor your el.
And then I will say from basic wups form from basic underscore app import those views.
And remember I'm going to use app name is equal to basic underscore app and if you don't remember why
I'm doing that it's because the templates themselves especially the never are I go over to the base
never remember when I'm doing things like this basic app list and then Addleman comma index.
Cetera that sort of notation can only be done if I remember to set this app name so that's ready to
go.
Will say your patterns is equal to a list.
And let's start with just one link here.
Regular Expression and will just so the list of you for now we won't worry about the details page.
Now let's say comma use the school list view.
Remember we have to say as View because it's a class based view and we can give it the name list so
what's the reason for giving it the name that's for the oral template.
So here I have the basic app name list so basic app cool and list that comes back to the base team l
file for this basic app Colan list.
Hopefully by now you're beginning to see those connections and how everything kind of works together.
Let's actually test this all the work by running the server.
I'm going to say Python helps me actually see the first into the advanced section and then CD into our
project.
Now I won't say Python managed up high and then run the server.
So if we get any errors looks like it's thinking about it and the error we get is basic epub use has
an attribute index for you so I may have accidentally deleted that.
Let's come back to our I've used up my file and make sure I didn't delete it.
Whoops.
Looks like I did.
No problem.
Luckily with template view it's easy to fix.
Will say class index view and I'm just going to inherit the template view.
And also template name equal to index thought HVM.
And you can review back to the template view lecture if you want more information about this.
But you can see here that basically took care of the problem so accidently deleted this and I didn't
have to do so.
Now I'm going to copy this and put it in my browser and see if everything works.
OK here I am at my browser.
Looks like the home page is working.
We fix the index view.
Good news.
Now let's click on schools and then bingo.
Welcome to a list of all the schools.
One first school new second school.
Perfect.
So we can see here that our list view is working correctly and again.
Just a quick reminder what's actually happening here.
Usually when we want to list true everything in a model we would have to have called that model that
objects to all etc. what list you does for us is it puts that all in in this nice convenient context
object name called schools.
So then I can just say for Blanken schools then list stuff off of that.
So again listing stuff in your model every entry is so common that that's already all built in for you.
In these three lines of code here you can check the model and you even have to say context object name.
That's only the option do you want to have your own context.
OK now let's check out the admin page before we actually talk about the detail view.
So I'm going to log back into this and then Jose it has password perfect and inserter administration
page.
If you look at basic app we have the schools and students in ific click on students.
Notice that we never actually set a primary key.
When we were developing that model we set a foreign key that matched to the school though we didn't
actually set a primary key and for this particular application that kind of actually makes sense.
We wouldn't want to set the name of the student as a primary key because students may share names Sarah
may be a common name between two girls and we wouldn't want the model getting confused that we have
matching primary keys there.
So instead what we end up doing is not finding one.
And if you don't define a primary key what jingle does in the background for you is it sets an ID which
is just a serial number marker.
So the first entry you put in is one the second entries to.
Second entries 3.
It just has that unique identifier that primary key as a single number.
Which means we can call id off of it either for a student or for school since actually for neither of
them we set up a primary key.
So let's log out.
Not going to come back to the Adam text editor to control C here and again just to reiterate if I come
to models up high none of these fields that I ever indicate that it was a primary field.
The only thing I indicated was that the student had a foreign key in school but since none of them were
actually primary keys or primary fields then what changed are that in the background was set in ID for
every entry which is just a numerical indicator.
Now we can use that to actually link for a couple of things.
So we're going to really show off how convenient list views and details views can be.
If I come back to school list it would be nice if that if I click on the school then it takes me to
the school's particular detail page.
And so what we need to do is come to school list and inside of this age to apply.
I'm going to pass in an anchor tied and this anchor Ted is going to have the school name as text so
it's going to say for school in schools.
It's going to list all the schools we've already seen that page but we're actually going to give it
a Tref and what this Atra is going to be is school dot ID which is essentially just a number for that
school so keep that in mind.
We're going to use this later with the start PI with regular expressions in a way that we haven't actually
seen before yet.
But here we have the school name that makes sense to us.
Just the name of the school but it's linking to essentially a number and we're going to use that in
just a second year olds that PI file.
But before we do that we also want to make sure that our details HTL file is ready.
So school underscore detail that each team will have school details up principal that location.
That's looking good as well.
What I'm going to say is also list off all the students that this particular school has.
So we'll create a heading three here and I will say students and then the next thing to do is have students
actually cycle through the students.
If I want to cycle through something I need to use a for loop I will save for student and you can use
whatever variable you want.
Student is fine for us and will say in school underscore detail remember school underscore detail is
that context we're returning from the used up pie and I will call that students.
All and then I'm going to just create a paragraph element with the student name and I will say so that
like Mary Sam who is we'll call students that age years old.
So we should see something that says Mary who is 11 years old etc..
And then whenever we have a for loop into the end it will say.
And for now something you may be wondering is where the heck those students come from.
We know her school underscore detail comes from that comes from views where we just return to school
and her score detail.
But if we come to that students at all.
How do we actually get to that.
Well if you go back to models that pie remember that we added this related name and that relates the
actual school to the students.
So he passed it in with a foreign key and we passed and the related name so I can call back in my school
detail page the actual context of the school that students are all in it's going to grab anything of
that matching foreign key.
In our case all the students who had that related name students that sort of notation can be confusing
at first but again it's really just a related name that's connecting this foreign key with school.
So that school can be linked to all of the students that belong to that school.
So you just call that really the name students and then say that all to grab all of them over here in
this in school detail that students.
All right.
So we have our school list and what we need to take care of in the Urals that py file is actually working
with this school.
And that's where a regular expressions are going to help us a lot.
We're going to come over here to the applications.
Eurostar py file and inside of this one I'm going to do is whip's is the projects that I file on my
applications.
Perfect.
OK.
So inside of this one I'm going to do is the following.
And this is going to seem almost a little alien.
If you feel uncomfortable with regular expressions that are going to try to explain to the best of my
ability what's actually happening here.
So I'll say carrot and that imprint sees ongoing person questionmark capital P and then the less than
and greater sign.
And then inside of that we'll pass P.K. square brackets dash backslash w and then we'll say plus that
all goes inside the princes and they'll say forward slash dollar sign and they'll say use the school
detail view and then pass that in as underscore you.
So we have actually been looking at that detail page yet.
Now we're going to link it and then we'll say name is equal to the tail and we'll save that.
OK so what is actually happening here.
Well essentially what we're doing is when someone comes that school list page when someone actually
clicks on this school's name in that list view the ref is just going to essentially return a single
number the actual number that corresponds as a primary key.
Or in other words a P K primary key.
Then if we go to 3 year olds that PI file inside our application that this guy the primary key that
were actually grabbing in we're going to be able to do is link to that school's particular detailed
view.
Now back here under Europe patterns basically all we're saying with this regular expression is grab
the basic app extension of the domain name slash and then whatever this number happens to be for the
primary key and take that in as the school details view and let me make sure that you have a comma here
separating these two guys.
Looks like I need to add one in so I have a comma there.
Save that and now we have the school list view.
And we should also have the detail view for that particular school.
So I will save that in if again if this regular expression is really confusing Don't worry.
It's usually something that you kind of reference the documentation for.
I would never expect someone to have this memorized right off the bat almost the work of regular expressions
all the time.
But as you get more and more used to particular patterns in your code and web design there are certain
regular expressions that you're going to find yourself kind of memorizing.
For instance we probably already memorized the basic home page which is just that curat dollar sign
OK let's actually run this we'll say Python managed up PI run server.
Enter And let me bring up the browser.
OK so here we are at the home page looks like that's working.
Let's come over to schools and now we see that all the schools are actually links so we can click on
the first school and it says Welcome to the school detail page.
Kind of a large zoom in here a little bit and it's a jumbotron.
But here we see the school details and we've looped through all the students in the school said Mikee
who is 10 years old John who's 12 years old Perfect can come back to schools try a new second school
and same thing here you see the second school details Mrs. Smith New York and we see Lauren and Sarah
so remember back we're setting up the database.
It was female students for the new second school.
So it looks like everything is matching up perfectly.
And those are the basics of how you can use a list view and a detailed view so jumpy back to views that
apply kind of the whole point of this is that you can quickly use list you in detail view instead of
having to play around with those modeled objects all etc..
We saw that we had to do a little bit of that with the detail view.
But basically none of that de-list view.
And you can always specify the context object name that you want to return.
All right.
Hope you found this useful and I'll see you at the next lecture where we begin talking about credit
applications.